VOWED TODAY TO BACK PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S PLAN TO STRIKE SYRIA.
GOOD EVEN
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, THE
PRESSURE FOR MILITARY ACTION
INTENSIFIED TODAY IN A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING WITH LAWMAKERS AND
AT THE FIRST HEARING ON CAPITOL
HILL.
WE HEAR FROM MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT
CARL LEVIN.
>> Ifill: THEN, JAPAN STRUGGLES
TO STEM RADIOACTIVE LEAKS FROM
ITS CRIPPLED NUCLEAR PLANT,
INCLUDING A PLAN TO BUILD AN ICE
WALL BELOW THE DAMAGED REACTORS.
>> Woodruff: WE BREAK DOWN TWO
BIG DEALS IN THE WORLD OF
TECHNOLOGY AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
>> Ifill: AS THE DEBATE OVER A
LIVING WAGE IS REIGNITED BY
AST-FFOOD WORKERS, RAY SUAREZ
SITS DOWN WITH THE NEW SECRETARY
OF LABOR, THOMAS PEREZ.
>> GOOD LUCK THE ONLY SERVICE
THAT CAN BE SUSTAINED IN AMERICA
ARE MINIMUM WAGE, NO BENEFIT
JOBS.
I CATEGORICALLY REJECT THAT
>> Woodruff: AND SCHOOLS IN
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, WANT TO
CURB A DECADE OF DECLINING
GRADUATION RATES.
WE PROFILE PROGRAMS AIMED AT
ENGAGING STUDENTS.
>>
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA WON
KEY SUPPORT TODAY AS HE STEPPED
UP HIS COURTING OF CONGRESS TO
BACK MILITARY ACTION AGAINST
SYRIA.
HE AND HIS TOP LIEUTENANTS
LOBBIED FOR PUNISHING THE
DAMASCUS REGIME OVER
THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> I WANT TO THAT LEADERS OF
BOTH PARTIES FOR BEING HERE
TODAY.
>> THE PRESIDENT CALLED IN HOUSE
AND SENATE LEADERS THIS MORNING,
PLUS KEY COMMITTEE CHAIRS, IN
PART POSITIVE REASSURE THEM THAT
HE HAS NO INTENTION OF
OVERREACHING IN SYRIA.
>> I WANT TO NO-FLY ZONE TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, THE MILITARY
PLAN THAT HAS BEEN DEVELOPED BY
THE JOINT CHIEFS AND THAT I
BELIEVE IS APPROPRIATE IS
PROPORTIONAL.
IT IS LIMITED.
IT DOES NOT INVOLVE BOOTS ON THE
GROUND.
THIS IS NOT IRAQ AND THIS IS NOT
AFGHANISTAN.
>> MORE OVER, MR. OBAMA SAID HE
IS WILLING TO WORK WITH CONGRESS
TO ADD JUST THE RESOLUTION'S
LANGUAGE, AUTHORIZING THE USE OF
FORCE.
>> SO LONG AS WE ARE
ACCOMPLISHING WHAT NEEDS TO BE
ACCOMPLISHED, WITH I HAVE TO
SEND A CLEAR MESSAGE TO ASSAD
AND HIS ABILITIES TO USE NUKE
COLLAR WEAPONS I'M CONFIDENT WE
WILL COME UP WITH SOMETHING.
>> AFTERWARDS IT APPEARED THE
PRESIDENT HAD HIT HIS MARK WITH
THE LAWMAKERS, HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER BACKED THE CALL FOR
MILITARY STRIKES ON SYRIA.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT THE
UNITED STATES AS A COUNTRY NEEDS
TO DO.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE
PRESIDENT, CALL FOR ACTION.
I BELIEVE MY COLLEAGUES SHOULD
SUPPORT THIS ACTION.
>> HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADER NANCY
PELOSI AGREED.
BUT SHE ALSO SAID THE
ADMINISTRATION DOES NEED TO WIN
OVER THE PUBLIC.
>> I AM HOPEFUL, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE PERSUADED THAT THIS
ACTION HAPPENED, THAT ASSAD DID
IT, THAT HUNDREDS OF CHILDREN
WERE KILLED, THIS IS THE
BEHAVIOR OUTSIDE OF THE CIRCLE
OF CIVILIZED HUMAN BEHAVIOR AND
WE MUST RESPOND.
>> LATER, SECOND OF STATE JOHN
KERRY AND DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL TOOK THE
ADMINISTRATION'S PICKS DIRECTLY
TO THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE.
>> I WILL TELL YOU THERE ARE
SOME PEOPLE HOPING THAT THE
UNITED STATES CONGRESS DOESN'T
VOTE FOR THIS VERY LIMITED
REQUEST THE PRESIDENT HAS PUT
BEFORE YOU.
IRAN IS HOPING YOU WILL LOOK THE
OTHER WAY.
OUR INACTION WOULD SURELY GIVE
THEM A PERMISSION SLIP, FOR THEM
TO AT LEAST MISINTERPRET OUR
INTENTION, IF NOT TO PUT IT TO
THE TEST.
>> HAGEL SUGGESTED A US FAILURE
TO ACT WOULD ALSO EMBOLDEN THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT.
>> THE ASSAD REGIME UNDER
PRESSURE BY THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION COULD FEEL IM POWERED
TO CARRY OUT MORE DEVASTATING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ATTACKS WITHOUT
A RESPONSE.
>> BOTH MEN PLAYED DOWN FEARS OF
A WIDER WAR.
KERRY AGREED THE LANGUAGE OF THE
RESOLUTION COULD RULE OUT THE
USE OF U.S. GROUND TROOPS.
AT ONE POINT, THE PROCEEDINGS
WERE INTERRUPTED BY ANTI--WAR
PROTESTERS.
AND KERRY LOOKED BACK 0 HIS
EARLY YEARS OPPOSING THE WAR IN
VIETNAM.
>> YOU KNOW THE FIRST TIME I
TESTIFIED BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE
WAS WHEN I WAS 27 YEARS OLD.
I HAVE FEELINGS VERY SIMILAR TO
THAT PROTESTER.
AND I WOULD JUST SAY THAT IS
EXACTLY WHY IT IS SO IMPORTANT
THAT WE'RE ALL HERE HAVING THIS
DEBATE, TALKING ABOUT THESE
THINGS BEFORE THE COUNTRY AND
THAT THE CONGRESS ITSELF WILL
ACT REPRESENTING THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> KERRY AND HAGEL, BOTH FORMER
SENATORS, GENERALLY GOT A
SUPPORTIVE RECEPTION.
BUT IDAHO REPUBLICAN JIM RICH
MADE IT CLEAR IT WAS NOT
UNANIMOUS.
>> ARE WE REALLY GOING TO BE
GIVING THEM CREDIBILITY, IF WE
GO IN WITH A LIMITED STRIKE AND
THE DAY AFTER OR THE WEEK AFTER
OR THE MONTH AFTER, ASSAD CALLS
OUT OF HIS RAT HOLE AND SAID,
LOOK, I STOOD UP TO THE
STRONGEST POWER ON THE FACE OF
THISARTH AND I WON.
SO NOW IT'S BUSINESS AS USUALLY
HERE.
>> THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT
WHATEVER CHOICES ARE MADE BY THE
PRESIDENT, THAT HE AND HIS
MILITARY EFFORT WILL NOT BE
BETTER OFF, NUMBER ONE, AND THE
OPPOSITION WILL KNOW THAT AND
THE PEOPLE IN SYRIA WILL KNOW
THAT.
>> Woodruff: AT THE END OF THE
DAY, THE PRESIDENT STILL FACE
ADD FIGHT WITH A NUMBER OF
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICANS AND
SOME LIBERAL DEMOCRATS OPPOSING
ANY ACTION IN SYRIA.
IN A NEW WASHINGTON POST/ABC
NEWS POLL FOUND BROAD PUBLIC
OPPOSITION AS WELL.
MEANWHILE THE UNITED NATIONS
SECTARYRE GENERAL WARNED AGAINST
ANY AMERICAN ATTACK WITHOUT THE
APPROVAL OF THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL.
>> ALSO TODAY, RUSSIA CRITICIZED
THE DEPLOYMENT OF U.S. WARSHIPS
NEAR SYRIA, COMPLAINING ITS ONLY
AGGRAVATING TENSIONS.
AND ILLUSTRATING THOSE TENSIONS,
A U.S.S.-ISRAELI JOINT MISSILE
EXERCISE IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
SPARKED A BRIEF OVERNIGHT FLURRY
OF ALARM IN THE REGION.
>> AT THE
>> Ifill: AS THE SYRIA DEBATE
UNFOLDS IN CONGRESS, WE'LL BE
TALKING TO LAWMAKERS AS THEY
DECIDE WHAT COMES NEXT.
TONIGHT WE GET THE VIEW FROM ONE
SENATOR WHO SUPPORTS THE
PRESIDENT, BUT BELIEVES THE U.S.
SHOULD BE DOING EVEN MORE.
MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT CARL LEVIN IS
CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE.
I SPOKE WITH HIM A SHORT TIME
AGO.
>> SENATOR LEVIN, THANKOU F YOR
JOINING US.
FIRST I WANT TO ASK YOU WHERE DO
YOU STAND TONIGHT ON THE
PRESIDENT'S AUTHORIZATION GOT?
>> I THINK WE SHOULD AUTHORIZE
THE USE OF FORCE IN ORDER FOR IT
TO BE MOST EFFECTIVE, THAT MEANS
THAT WE HAVE TO DO A COUPLE OF
THINGS BESIDES AUTHORIZE IT.
WE HAVE TO HELP THE SYRIAN
PEOPLE WHO ARE RESISTING ASSAD
TO HAVE THE WEAPONS TO FIGHT FOR
THEMSELVES AND SO FOR CERTAIN
WEAPONS THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL IN
THAT RESPECT HAVE NOT BEEN
PROVIDED FOR THEM AND
PARTICULARLY IN RESPONSE TO A
CHEMICAL ATTACK.
IF THEY HAD ANTITANK WEAPONS TO
GO AGAINST THE TANKS, IT WOULD
PROTECT THE LAUNCHERS THAT
LAUNCH THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS FOR
INSTANCE, THAT WOULD SHOW THIS
IS NOT JUST AN AMERICAN FIGHT,
THAT THIS IS A FIGHT THAT THE
SYRIAN FREE ARMY IS RIGHT IN THE
MIDDLE OF AND IS WILLING TO
FIGHT BUT THEY NEED THE WEAPONS,
WE OUGHT TO HELP GET THOSE
WEAPONS TO THEM, AND, SECONDLY,
IT SEEMS TO ME IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT, WHEN WE DO STRIKE, THAT WE
HAVE OTHER COUNTRIES WITH US FOR
IT TO BE EFFECTIVE AND THAT
INCLUDES A NUMBER OF ARAB
COUNTRIES.
WE WERE ASSURED TODAY THERE WILL
BE A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES THAT
WOULD JOIN WITH US AND THAT'S
VERY IMPORTANT FOR THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF ANY OF OUR
ACTION ON OUR PART.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT ONE THING AT
A TIME.
THE FIRST PART, WITH I IS ARMING
THE REBELS, WHICH YOU HAVE BEEN
ARGUING ON BEHALF OF FOR THE
BETTER PART OF THIS YEAR, IS
THAT SOMETHING THAT YOU
UNDERSTAND TO BE PART OF THE
AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AS
REDRAFTED IN CONGRESS?
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT AS
PART OF THE AUTHORIZATION OF
CONGRESS BUT WHETHER IT'S PART
OF THE AUTHORIZATION OR NOT, IF
THE ADMINISTRATION DOES MOVE
THERE THAT DIRECTION, AND I AM
MORE CONFIDENT NOW THAN I WAS
BEFORE THE MEETING THIS MORNING
THAT THERE WILL BE THAT KIND OF
AN EFFORT, THEN IT HAS THE SAME
EFFECT.
SO ONE WAY OR ANOTHER, IT SEEMS
TO ME, WE HAVE THE SYRIAN PEOPLE
WHO HATE THIS DICTATOR, WE HAVE
A FREE SYRIAN ARMY, WHICH IS
WILLING TO TAKE HIM ON, EVERY
DAY, BUT RIGHT NOW THEY DON'T
HAVE THE KIND OF WEAPONS THAT
WOULD ALLOW THEM TO RESPOND TO A
CHEMICAL ATTACK INSIDE OF A
CITY.
FOR THAT THEY NEED FOR INSTANCE
TO GO AFTER THE TANKS AND THE
ARTILLERY, WHICH ARE PROTECTING
THE ROCKET LAUNCHERS WHICH ARE
THE ONES THAT LAUNCHED THOSE
CHEMICAL ATTACKS.
>> AND THE SECOND PART, POINT
YOU MADE WAS YOU HAD BEEN
ASSURED THIS MORNING THAT THERE
WOULD BE SUPPORT FROM ARAB
NATIONS IN THIS ENTERPRISE.
WHAT KIND OF ASSURANCE DID YOU
GET?
>> WELL, WE GOT AID INSURANCE
THAT THERE WILL BE AT LEAST SOME
NATIONS THAT ARE WILLING TO
SPEAK OUT.
I THINK ALMOST ALL OF THE ARAB
NATIONS WANT US TO DO IT BUT
THERE WILL BE A FEW, WE WILL BE
ASSURED AND THEY WEREN'T NAMED
AND THAT WAS APPROPRIATE BUT WE
WERE ASSURED THERE WOULD BE SOME
ARAB NATIONS THAT WOULD ACTIVELY
PARTICIPATE WITH US AND A NUMBER
OF ADDITIONAL NATIONS BOTH
EXPAISH NON-ARAB, THAT WOULD BE
PUBLICLY SUPPORTIVE OF THIS
ACTION.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THIS BE
VIEWED NOT AS JUST AN AMERICAN
EFFORT TO KEEP A RED LINE WHICH
THE WORLD HAS DRAWN AGAINST
CHEMICAL WEAPONS INTACT, R. BUT
THAT IN FACT IT IS AN
INTERNATIONAL EFFORT AND NOT
EVERY COUNTRY MAY JOIN US.
BUT PROVIDED THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF COUNTRIES THAT DO, IT WILL
SEND THE SAME SIGNAL.
>> BACK TO THE ARMY REBELS WE
HAVE HAD THIS CONVERSATION
BEFORE.
IN FACT LAST TIME WE TALKED
ABOUT RED LINES I THINK THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD DO IT.
IF IT HASN'T HAPPENED, WHY NOT?
AND WHAT CERTAINTY DO YOU HAVE
IT WILL HAPPEN THIS TIME?
>> BECAUSE I HEARD SOME THINGS
THIS MORNING THAT REASSURED ME
THAT IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN, THAT
THEY NOW HAVE A GREATER COMFORT
LEVEL WITH CERTAIN PARTS OF THE
OPPOSITION, AND SO THAT WE CAN
MAKE SURE TO THE EXTENT THAT IS
HUMANLY POSSIBLE THAT THE
WEAPONS DO NOT FALL INTO THE
WRONG HANDS, BECAUSE THERE ARE
PARTS OF THE OPPOSITION TO ASSAD
THAT ARE NOT PEOPLE THAT WE WANT
TO PROVIDE WEAPONS TO BECAUSE
THEY COULD USE THEM FOR THE
WRONG PURPOSE.
A VERY COMPLEX SITUATION.
THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY IS LED BY A
PERSON WHO WE KNOW IS A
MODERATE, THAT WE KNOW WILL,
WHEN THEY SUCCEED, HELP THE
SYRIAN PEOPLE AND THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY AND MOVE IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION BUT THERE ARE
OTHER ELEMENTS SUCH AS AL QAEDA
AND WE DO NOT WANT TO DO
ANYTHING WHICH COULD HELP THEM
GET THE KIND OF WEAPONS THAT
THEY WOULD USE.
>> AND YOU ARE REASSURED THAT
THIS PLAN, WHATEVER PLAN THAT
YOU HAVE BEEN BRIEFED ON, WOULD
ENSURE THESE WEAPONS DID NOT END
UP IN THE HANDS OF JIHADDISTS ON
THE FRONT AND THAT THEY WOULD
NOT BE A VACUUM THAT FOLLOWED AS
A RESULT?
>> WELL, THERE IS GREATER
INSURANCE NOW THAN THERE WAS
MONTHS AGO, THAT WE HAVE -- THAT
WE CAN IDENTIFY THE GROUPS THAT
SHOULD HAVE THE WEAPONS TO TAKE
ON ASSAD AND IT SHOULD BE DONE
SAFELY.
IT'S NOT A PERFECT DEAL.
THERE'S NO GUARANTEE THAT SOME
OF THESE WEAPONS WOULD NOT FALL
INTO THE WRONG HANDS BUT THERE'S
GREATER CONFIDENCE NOW.
ONE OTHER THING, PARTICULARLY AS
IT RELATES TO THE ANTITANK
WEAPONS.
THESE ARE TANKS WHICH ARE
PROTECTING ASSAD ROCKET
LAUNCHERS.
THOSE TANKS CAN ONLY BE KNOCKED
OFF WITH ANTITANK WEAPONS AND
THOSE ANTITANK WEAPONS ARE
USEFUL ONLY AGAINST ASSAD'S
TANKS BECAUSE THERE ARE NO OTHER
TANKS IN SYRIA BESIDE ASSAD
TANKS AND SO THOSE WEAPONS IT
SEEMS TO ME CAN BE PROVIDED TO
THE VETTED COMPONENTS OF THE
SYRIAN OPPOSITION.
>> SECRETARY KERRY SAID TODAY
THERE WAS ABSOLUTELILY
POSITIVELY NO WAY THERE WOULD BE
BOOTS ON THE GROUND AND HE WOULD
BE OPEN TO THIS BEING INCLUDED
AS PART OF THE WAR
AUTHORIZATION.
DO YOU THINK IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO
DRAW THAT LINE?
>> I DO.
>> WHY.
>> BECAUSE I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE KNOW WE'RE NOT GOING TO
GET DRAGGED INTO A CIVIL WAR,
THAT THERE ARE WAYS OF TAKING
ACTION AGAINST THE USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS WHICH NEEDS TO
BE TAKEN.
IF COUNTRIES SUCH AS SYRIA AND
IRAN UNDERSTAND THAT THE
TRANSFER, FOR INSTANCE, OF
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION OR
THE USE OF WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION, WILL PRECIPITATE A
PONCE ON OUR PART BECAUSE IF
THOSE ARE TRANSFERRED SUCH
CHEMICALS GOING TO TERRORIST
GROUPS TH THIS IS IN OUR
INTEREST THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS
AND OTHER WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION NOT BE USED BECAUSE
THEY COULD BE READILY
TRANSFERRED TO TERRORIST GROUPS
THAT ARE TARGETING US AND SO I
THINK IT IS TERRIBLY IMPORTANT
THAT THE STEPSEN TAKEN THAT I
HAVE OUTLINED AND ALSO THAT WE
NOT BE DRAGGED INTO A CIVIL WAR.
WE CAN ACT AGAINST THE USE OF
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND
HELP OTHERS, LIKE THE SYRIAN
FREE ARMY TO ACT AGAINST THE USE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS WITHOUT
BEING DRAGGED INTO A CIVIL WAR.
>> HOW DO YOU REASSURE YOUR
CONSTITUENTS AND OTHERS AROUND
THE COUNTRY THAT LOOK AT THIS
AND SEE ECHOS OF THE ARGUMENTS
THAT WERE MADE FOR IRAQ OR
AFGHANISTAN, THAT THIS IS NOT
GOING TO DRAG US INTO A WIDER
WAR OR THAT EVEN THESE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ARE THE REASON TO ACT
NOW?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL I
DISTINGUISH IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
FOR A LOT OF REASONS BUT GOING
BACK TO IRAQ ITSELF, WHAT HAS
CHANGED NOW IS THAT THERE IS A
GLOBAL TERRORIST NETWORK NOW
WHICH IS MUCH MORE THREATENING
NOW TO US THAN 'TWAS FIVE, 10,
15 YEARS AGO.
SO THE POSSIBILITY THAT WEAPONS
WOULD BE TRANSFERRED TO A
TERRORIST GROUP NOW WITH A
GLOBAL REACH IS A VERY DIFFERENT
AND MORE THREATENING SITUATION
TO US THAN IT WAS BEFORE.
THAT DOES NOT DEFEND OUR
FAILURES BEFORE, PARTICULARLY
WOULD THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS BY IRAQ, BUT I AM SAYING
THAT IT IS A MUCH DIFFERENT
SITUATION NOW THAN IT WAS 10 OR
15 OR 20 YEARS AGO.
>> SENATOR CARL LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> GOOD BEING WITH YOU, GLENN.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR, STEMMING THE
RADIOACTIVE LEAKS IN JAPAN;
MERGING TECH AND TELECOM GIANTS;
INSPIRING AFRICAN AMERICAN BOYS
IN OAKLAND; AND SECRETARY OF
LABOR THOMAS PEREZ.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: THE SPORADIC VIOLENCE
IN BAGHDAD SURGED AGAIN TODAY.
AT LEAST 67 IRAQIS DIED IN A
SERIES OF BOMBINGS IN THE EARLY
EVENING.
SOME OF THE TARGETS WERE IN
SHIITE AREAS, OTHERS WERE
LARGELY SUNNI.
MORE THAN 4,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN IRAQ DURING A PERIOD
OF SECTARIAN VIOLENCE SPANNING
THE LAST FIVE MONTHS.
AL JAZEERA TELEVISION'S
AFFILIATE IN EGYPT AND THREE
OTHER STATIONS WERE BLACKED OUT
TODAY.
AN EGYPTIAN COURT ORDERED THEM
SHUT DOWN FOR SIDING WITH OUSTED
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI AND HIS
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
THAT BROUGHT DIVIDED REACTIONS,
FROM THOSE WHO FAVORED AND
OPPOSED THE RULING.
>> I FILED THE CASE BECAUSE IT
IS NOT OBJECTIVE AND
TRANSMITTING A PICTURE THAT DOES
NOT REFLECT THE TRUTH OF THE
PROTEST WHICH IS INCITING
VIOLENCE AGAINST THE REGIME.
>> THIS IS NOT A DEMOCRACY WE
HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR.
BACK DURING THE REVOLUTION,
AL-JAZEERA WAS THE ONE SHOWING
THE TRUTH AND OTHER EGYPTIAN
CHAELSNN WERE NOT.
>> NOW THEY SAY THEY OPPOSE THE
REVOLUTION BECAUSE IT SHOWS THE
TRUTH AND THE PEOPLE THAT GOT
KILLED.
THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
>> MEANWHILE
>> Holman: MEANWHILE, EGYPTIAN
HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS STRUCK
MILITANTS IN THE NORTHERN SINAI
PENINSULA TODAY.
AT LEAST EIGHT WERE KILLED AND
15 INJURED AS PART OF A CAMPAIGN
TO CONTROL ISLAMIC RADICALS IN
THE REGION.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, NEW DATA
SHOWED U.S. MANUFACTURING GREW
IN AUGUST BY THE MOST IN MORE
THAN TWO YEARS.
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
23 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
14,834.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 22
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3612.
THE LARGEST SELF-ANCHORED
SUSPENSION BRIDGE IN THE WORLD
OPENED FOR BUSINESS IN SAN
FRANCISCO TODAY.
VEHICLES BEGAN CROSSING THE NEW
SECTION OF THE SAN FRANCISCO-
OAKLAND BAY BRIDGE, SOME SIX
YEARS BEHIND SCHEDULE.
THE SPAN COST $6 BILLION, FIVE
TIMES MORE THAN ITS ORIGINAL
BUDGET.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MORE BAD
NEWS FROM JAPAN ABOUT
RADIOACTIVE LEAKS AT THE
CRIPPLED FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT
AND A NEW PLAN TO DEAL WITH
THOSE PROBLEMS.
WE BEGIN WITH A REPORT FROM TOM
CLARKE OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
.
>> IT'S TWO AND A HALF YEARS
SINCE THE AREA WAS SENT TO
MELTDOWN AND THE CLEANUP HAS
HARDLY BEGUN.
INSTEAD, ENGINEERS HAVE BEEN
BACK TO PREVENT HUNDREDS OF TONS
OF RADIOACTIVE WATER LEAKING
FROM STORAGE TANKS FROM THE SITE
TODAY JAPAN'S PRIME MINISTER
ANNOUNCED THE GOVERNMENT WOULD
INTERVENE.
>> THE WHOLE WORLD IS WATCHING
WHETHER WE CAN SUCCESSFULLY
RESOLVE PROBLEMS WITH THE PLANT
AND DECOMMISSION THE REACTORS.
WE MUST ALL WORK TOGETHER ON THE
ISSUES.
>> THE TOTAL CRISES STEMS FROM
THIS THE HUGE QUANTITIES NEEDED
TO COOL THE REACTORS.
NEARLY 400,000 TONS OF WATER IS
BEING STORED IN THESE HASTILY
CONSTRUCTED TANKS.
MORE ARE BEING ADDED DAILY AND
THEY'RE RUNNING OUT OF SPACE.
SINCE THE INITIAL MELTDOWN IN
2011, CONTAMINATED WATER HAS
BEEN LEAKING FROM THE REACTOR
BUILDINGS INTO THE GROUNDWATER
BENEATH, AND A THIRD SAID WATER
LEAKED FROM THE STORAGE TANKS
TODAY.
TODAY'S PLAN IS TO DRILL HOLES
AROUND THE REACTORS AND PUMP
THEM FULL OF COOL WATER FROM THE
GROUND THAT WOULD STOP THE
CONTAMINATED WATER LEAKING OUT.
>> THE DIFFICULTY COMES IN
ACTUALLY BEING AGE ABLE TO GET
CLOSE ENOUGH TO GET FROM THE
LOCATIONS AS THEY WOULD REQUIRE
TO INSTALL THE WELLS SO IT MAY
BE THAT THEY HAVE TO MAKE THE --
MAKE IT FURTHER AWAY FROM THE
SOURCE THAN THEY WANTED.
>> THE REST WOULD BE SPENT ON
THE THOUSANDS OF TONS OF
CONTAMINATED WATER IN LEAKY
TANKS.
IT'S BEING SUGGESTED TODAY
DEGREES ACTION IS TO INCREASE
JAPAN'S IMAGE ABROAD AND THE
DECISION TO CHOOSE THE 2020 AS A
HOST NATION
>> Ifill: JEFFREY BROWN PICKS UP
THE STORY FROM THERE.
>> Brown: WE CHECK IN AGAIN WITH
TWO PEOPLE WHO'VE HELPED US KEEP
UP WITH THE CONTINUING CRISIS.
ARJUN MAKHIJANI IS AN ENGINEER
SPECIALIZING IN NUCLEAR FUSION.
HE'S THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INSTITUTE FOR ENERGY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH.
KENJI KUSHIDA SPECIALIZES IN
JAPANESE STUDIES AT STANFORD
UNIVERSITY.
.
>> WELCOME BACK TO BOTH OF YOU.
ARJUN, LET ME START WITH YOU,
HOW SERIOUS ARE THE NEW
REVELATIONS ABOUT THE WATER
CONTAMINATION.
>> THE LAST TIME WE SPOKE OR WE
TALKED ABOUT THE LEAK AND THE
RADIATION LEVELS THAT COULD GIVE
A WORKER AN ANNUAL RADIATION
DOSE IN 12 MINUTES.
WELL, MORE RECENTLY, THERE HAVE
BEEN REPORTS THAT THE RADIATION
LEVELS NEAR ANOTHER TANK ARE
1800 UNITS PER HOUR.
THIS IS AN EXTREMELY HIGH LEVEL
OF RADIATION.
A FEW HOURS BASICALLY
CONSTITUTES A LETHAL DOSE.
SO NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATION IN THE
TANKS AND THE LIQUID STORED IN
THE TANKS THAT ARE VERY HIGHLY
RADIOACTIVE SO THE LEAKS THAT
ARE EXTREMELY PROBLEMATIC FOR
THE WORKERS AND FOR MANAGEMENT.
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THEY JUST
DISCOVERED OR WHAT SUDDENLY
CAUSES THAT MUCH MORE SERIOUS
AMOUNT OF LEVELS.
>> THE BEST I CAN UNDERSTAND,
THROUGH ALL OF THE CONFUSING
INFORMATION THAT IS OUT THERE,
IS THE FIRST MEAREMSUENT WAS
DONE WITH AN INSTRUMENT THAT
ONLY WENT UP TO A HUNDRED MILLIE
UNITS AND NOW THEY'RE MAKING
MORE MEASUREMENTS AND FINDING
THERE ARE MORE CONTAMINATED
SPOTS AND APPARENTLY MORE LEAKS.
SO I'M NOT QUITE CLEAR WHAT THE
COMPANY KNOWS WHEN.
BUT THE INFORMATION IS KIND OF
DRIBBLING OUT A THE GOVERNMENT
IS CLEARLY CONCERNED THAT THE
SITUATION IS GETTING MORE OUT OF
CONTROL.
>> KENJI, YOU PICK UP ON THAT
BECAUSE THERE'S THE GOVERNMENT
AND THE GOVERNMENT IS STEPPING
IN WITH MORE FORCE NOW, RIGHT?
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
BECAUSE THE NEXT ELECTION IN
THREE YEARS IS GOING TO
DEFINITELY REFLECT THE RESPONSE
ON THIS NUCLEAR ISSUE, BECAUSE
THEY'RE ESSENTIALLY A PRO
NUCLEAR PARTY THAT JUST WON A
LANDSLIDE ELECTION AND SO IF
THEY CAN'T MANAGE THE OPERATOR'S
RESCUE EFFORTS AND THE OPERATOR
SEEMS TO BE UNABLE TO DEAL WITHE
HOOK.
>> BUT FROM THE OUTSIDE, IT
LOOKS LIKE THIS IS TAKING A LONG
TIME TO GET TO EVEN THE KIND OF
UNDERSTANDING OF THE
CONTAMINATION LEVELS THAT NEVER
MIND GETTING INTO A LOT OF THE
MORE SERIOUS WORK THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE.
WHAT IS THE SENSE IN JAPAN AS
FAR AS YOU CAN TELL ABOUT THE
LEVELS OF, I DON'T KNOW,
DESPERATION OR URGENCY THERE?
>> YEAH, WELL, SIMILAR FLOOR
WHAT WE SAID LAST TIME, THE
OPERATOR'S REPUTATION AND
PEOPLE'S CONFIDENCE IN IT, WHICH
WAS ALREADY AT AN ALL-TIME LOW
IS NOW EVEN LOWER AND AFTER THE
GOVERNMENT ESSENTIALLY DEFECT
NATIONALIZED THE OPERATOR ABOUT
A YEAR AGO AND REPLACED TOP
MANAGEMENT PEOPLE HOPED THAT THE
ABILITY OF THE OPERATOR TO DEAL
WITH SOME OF THESE PROBLEMS
WOULD HAVE BEEN ENHANCED.
BUT SOME OF THE MEDIA REPORTS
COMING FROM JAPAN ARE SAYING
THINGS LIKE SUBCONTRACTORS,
LEAKING INFORMATION THAT -- THEY
ARE LEAKING INFORMATION THAT THE
TANKS THAT THEY PUT TOGETHER, IN
GREAT HASTE, UNDER SEVERE COST
PRESSURE UNDER TECKO, AND THEY
ARE PUT TOGETHER WITH BOLTS THAT
ARE NOT WELDED TOGETHER SO SOME
OF THESE SUBCONTRACTORS ARE
SAYING WELL IN THE LONG RUN, YOU
WOULD EXPECT THEM TO START
SPRINGING LEAKS, SO CLEARLY,
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ON TOP OF THE
SITUATION AND PEOPLE ARE GETTING
VERY NERVOUS ABOUT THAT.
>> SO, ARJUN, EXPLAIN THE IDEA
OF THE ICE WALL.
IT SOUNDS STRANGE.
HOW WOULD IT WORK AND HOW MUCH
HAS IT BEEN TRIED BEFORE?
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW IF AN ICE
WALL LIKE THIS HAS BEEN TRIED
BEFORE.
IT'S LIKE BUILDING A DAM
UNDERGROUND BUT WITH ICE, BY
FREEZING AUGUST OF THE WATER IN
THE SOIL, SO THERE'S WATER
COMING IN UPHILL, THROUGH THE
SIDE AND GOING INTO THE OCEAN,
ALL UNDERGROUND.  IT'S AN
AQUIFER, SO THERE'S LIKE WATER
FUEL AND BECOMING CONTAMINATED
SO THEY HOPE TO FREEZE IT WITH A
GIANT FREEZING MACHINE LIKE YOUR
FREEZER AT HOME AND PUT COOLING
COILS IN THE SOIL, IT TAKES AN
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF ELECTRICITY
AND THEY WOULD FREEZE IT.
OF COURSE IT CONTAINS THE WATER
BEHIND IT LIKE A DAM BUT
EVENTUALLY IT'S GOING TO OVERTOP
THE DAM AS IT DID BEFORE, THEY
HAD ANOTHER WALL THAT THEY
BUILT, THEY CHEMICALLY
IMPREGNATED THE SOIL TO KIND OF
SOLIDIFY IT AND THAT IS WHAT IS
OVERFLOWING THREE TIMES A DAY.
>> SO IT HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE
BUT THAT ON THIS SCALE, YOU
THINK, SO IS IT AN EXPERIMENT OR
IS IT A STAB AT SOMETHING --
>> IT IS AN EXPERIMENT.
AND I THINK IT'S A RISKY
EXPERIMENT BECAUSE IF THE POWER
FAILS, YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE WHEN
THE POWER GOES OUT WITH YOUR
REFRIGERATOR, EVERYTHING WILL
DEFROST IN THE FREEZER.
IF THE ICE MELTS AND IT'S
BLOCKING AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF
CONTAMINATED WATER BEHIND IT,
YOU HAVE A PROBLEM AND AT THE
SAME TIME YOU KNOW, THE TANKS
ARE THEMSELVES SOMETHING OF A
THREAT, IF THERE'S ANOTHER
EARTHQUAKE AND THIS HIGHLY
CONTAMINATED WATER GETS INTO THE
OCEAN SO THEY HAVE A GOT A
COUPLE OF VERY, VERY SERIOUS
PROBLEMS OF CONTAINING THE
WATER.
>> AND THEN, KENJI KUSHIDA,
THERE'S A THE LONG-TERM HERE AND
I HEARD TALK ABOUT DECADES TO
DECOMMISSION THE PLANT FOR
EXAMPLE.
>> YES.
SOME OF THE ESTIMATES ARE A
MINIMUM OF 40 YEARS TO
DECOMMISSION THE PLANT SO THE
IDEA OF FROZEN UNDERGROUND
WALLS, A MASSIVE SPENDING INTO
INNOVATIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS CAN BE A GOOD THING BUT
WHEN IT'S A LAST LINE OF DEFENSE
DESIGNED AS A PERMANENT SOLUTION
TO A SEAMINGLY INTRACTABLE
PROBLEM I THINK THE GENERAL
PUBLIC WOULD BE MORE COMFORTED
IF THEY SAW SEVERAL OPTIONS OUT
THERE INSTEAD OF ALL OF THE EGGS
PUT INTO THIS POTENTIALLY
UNRISKY, UNNO ENAND UNTESTED
SOLUTION THAT MAY OR MAY NOT
WORK.
>> YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
POLITICS OF THE AREA.
IS THERE ANY SUN CERTAINTY AS TO
THE WILL TO STAY WITH THIS FOR
THE DECADES THAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
>> WELL, THERE'S NO CHOICE.
GIVEN THAT THE PARTY IS PRO
NUCLEAR AND THEY DO NOT FACE
ELECTIONS FOR THREE YEARS, THEIR
INTEREST IS DEFINITELY TO DO
WHATEVER IS POSSIBLE.
BECAUSE IF THIS GETS TRULY OUT
OF HAND IN A GREATER SENSE THAN
NOW, THEN THEY WILL BE -- THEIR
HEADS WILL BE ON THECHOP PING
BLOCK IN THE NEXT ELECTION BUT
THEY WOULD LIKE TO VOID THAT.
THAT BEING SAID, IT'S NOT LIKE
THERE'S A SET OF TECHNICAL
SOLUTIONS THAT ARE EASILY
POSSIBLE HERE THAT CAN BE CHOSEN
FROM.
SO IN THE VERY LONG-TERM, THEY
DO NEED TO TRY TO STAY IN POWER
SO YOU WOULD EXPECT THEM TO PUT
AS MANY RESOURCES AS POSSIBLE.
AND THEY ARE MOVING BUT THEY
NEED TO MUCH MUCH MORE QUICKLY
AS THE GENERAL PUBLIC WOULD
AGREE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
KENJI AND ARJUN, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO THE
WORLD OF TECHNOLOGY AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, WHERE TWO
BIG DEALS HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCED IN
AS MANY DAYS.
THE LATEST: MICROSOFT IS BUYING
NOKIA'S SMARTPHONE AND CELLULAR
HANDSET BUSINESS FOR JUST OVER
$7 BILLION.
IT COMES JUST DAYS AFTER
QUESTIONS WERE RAISED ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF MICROSOFT WHEN C.E.O.
STEVEN BALLMER ANNOUNCED HIS
INTENTION TO RETIRE.
ON MONDAY, VERIZON ANNOUNCED IT
WOULD BUY VODAFONE'S STAKE IN
VERIZON WIRELESS FOR $130
BILLION, MAKING IT ONE OF THE
LARGEST MERGER AND ACQUITIISON
DEALS IN HISTORY.
CECILIA KANG OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST" HAS BEEN COVERING THESE
STORIES AND JOINS ME NOW.
>> WELCOME BACK TO "THE NEWS
HOUR," CECILIA.
LET'S START WITH THE NEWSIEST OF
THE TWO STORIES AND THAT IS
MICROSOFT BUYING NOKIA.
WHAT IS BEHIND THIS?
>> Reporter: MICROSOFT HAS
REALLY STRUGGLED TO GET A FOOT
HOLD IN THE SMARTPHONE MARKET
THAT HAS REALLY DOMINATED ALL OF
TECHNOLOGY IN THE LAST SIX YEARS
SINCE THE iPHONE WAS RELEASED.
AND IT'S STRUGGLED BECAUSE ITS
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT HAS BEEN
SLOW AND IT HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO
COMPETE WITH COMPANIES LIKE
APPLE AND GOOGLE WHICH NOW
COMPLETELY DOMINATE THE
SMARTPHONE MARKET AND THIS IS
REALLY WHERE THE FUTURE OF ALL
TECHNOLOGY IS GOING.
>> WHY IS MIKE SO SOFT SO FAR
BEHIND THE OTHER TWO?
>> MICROSOFT IS BEHIND FOR REAS,
THERE'S A DEVELOPMENT OF ITS
SOFTWARE, IT'S WINDOWS SOFTWARE,
AND ALSO IT MADE A STRATEGIC
BET, ABOUT SIX -- BEFORE SIX
YEARS AGO, BEFORE THE iPHONE
WAS INTRODUCED IN 2007, WHERE IT
BELIEVED THAT ITS ABILITY TO
EXTEND ITS DOMINANCE IN
TECHNOLOGY FROM THE PC MARKET
COULD BE DONE IN THE SAME WAY IN
THE MOBILE DEVICE MARKET BY
SIMPLY LICENSING SOFTWARE.
BUT WHAT IT SAW WAS APPLE REALLY
BROKE OUT AND CAME OUT WITH A
NEW MODEL WHERE, WHEN IT
INTRODUCED THE iPHONE AND THEN
SUBSEQUENTLY THE iPAD, IT
SHOWED THAT IT COULD BE THAT THE
REAL SUCCESSFUL MODEL FOR THAT
COMPANY INITIALLY WAS TO CONTROL
THE DEVICE, TO ACTUALLY PRODUCE
AND CONTROL THE DEVICE AS WELL
AS THE SOFTWARE THAT RUNS ON IT.
AND MICROSOFT HAS REALLY
STRUGGLED TO BE ABLE TO COMPETE
AND BRING FORTH A DEVICE AND
SOFTWARE THAT IS AS APPEALING TO
CONSUMERS AS APPLE HAS AND
SUBSEQUENTLY GOOGLE WITH THE AN
TRIED PLATFORM.
>> SO DO ANALYSTS BELIEVE THIS
IS GOING TO ALLOW MICROSOFT TO
CATCH UP IN SOME WAY OR WHAT?
>> WELL, MICROSOFT IS
COLONELLING REALLY LATE TO THE
GAME.
AGAIN THE iPHONE WAS
INTRODUCED IN 2007.
IT'S REALLY ONLY BEEN ABLE TO
MAKE SOME WAVES WITH ITS NOKIA
WINDOWS PHONE CALLED THE LUMINA,
IN THE LAST FEW QUARTERS REALLY
AND THIS IS MANY YEARS OUT.
SO IT'S REALLY IN A WAY COMING
VERY RATE BUT MAYBE THAT
STRATEGIC WAS -- IT'S TRYING TO
MIMIC THE APPLE STRATEGY BY
BUYING NOKIA AND DEVELOPING
IN-HOUSE THE TECHNOLOGY HARDWARE
AND THE SOFTWARE.
AND WHETHER IT'S ABLE TO SUCCEED
IN THIS WAY WILL REALLY BE
DIFFICULT.
JUST BY PUTTING THESE COMPANIES,
THE DEVELOPERS UNDER ONE ROOF
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PRODUCE THE
RESULTS THAT IT'S BETTING IT
WILL BE ABLE TO DO WHICH IS
CREATE THE NEXT BIG HIT DEVICE,
BLOCKBUSTER DEVICE.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER MUCH
BIGGER DEAL, AND THAT HAVE
VERIZON SPENDING $130 BILLION
FOR VODAFONE SHARE IN VERIZON
WIRELESS.
THAT'S THE THINKING THERE?
>> WELL, THE THINKING THERE, AND
THE PRICE TAG
AT&T THAT DOMINATE AND THEY
REALLY ONLY GET BIGGER.
>>S ISES IS, HELPING US
UNDERSTAND IT ALL.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE NEW SCHOOL YEAR IS
NOW KICKING INTO FULL GEAR
AROUND THE COUNTRY FOLLOWING THE
SUMMER BREAK, MAKING IT A GOOD
TIME FOR A SERIES OF STORIES ON
IMPORTANT IDEAS BEING DISCUSSED
AND DEBATED IN EDUCATION.
WE START WITH A REPORT FROM
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, ON A
DIFFERENT APPROACH TO THE
DROPOUT PROBLEM, WHERE YOUNG
BLACK MEN ARE MORE LIKELY TO
MISS SCHOOL, GET SUSPENDED, OR
END UP IN JAIL THAN OTHER
STUDENTS.
THOSE STATISTICS HAVE ALARMED
OFFICIALS, WHO HAVE NOW SET OUT
TO REVERSE A DECADE OF DECLINING
GRADUATION RATES.
OUR STORY FROM SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JOSHUA JOHNSON WAS
PRODUCED BY OUR COLLEAGUES AT
KQED IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE SAN
FRANCISCO CHRONICLE.
IT'S PART OF THE AMERICAN
GRADUATE PROJECT.
>> Reporter: SIZWE ABAKAH
TEACHES THE MANHOOD DEVELOPMENT
CLASS AT OAKLAND'S SKYLINE HIGH
SCHOOL.
HE AND ABOUT A DOZEN AFRICAN
AMERICAN MALE TEACHERS FOCUS ON
MAKING SURE THAT BLACK BOYS
GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL.
>> WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE
TRANSFORMATIONS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE STATISTICS IN
OAKLAND, BLACK BOYS ARE THE
HIGHEST IN EVERYTHING WE DON'T
NEED TO BE IN.
>> YOU WILL SEE HIGHER RATES OF
DROPOUTS, LOWER RATES OF
GRADUATION, HIGHER RATES OF
CHRONIC ABSENCE, HIGHER RATES OF
SUSPENSION.
>> Reporter: JUNIOUS WILLIAMS IS
C.E.O. OF THE URBAN STRATEGIES
COUNCIL, AN OAKLAND-BASED
NONPROFIT WORKING TO ELIMINATE
PERSISTENT POVERTY.
IN 2010, THE COUNCIL PARTNERED
WITH THE OAKLAND SCHOOL DISTRICT
TO DEVELOP SOLUTIONS FOR
IMPROVING ACADEMIC AND SOCIAL
OUTCOMES FOR BLACK BOYS.
THE RESULT WAS THE OFFICE OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN MALE
ACHIEVEMENT.
CHRIS CHATMON IS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR.
>> ONE OF THE STRATEGIES WITH
OUR MANHOOD DEVELOPMENT CLASSES
IS HOW DO WE PUT THE SWAG BACK
INTO EDUCATION AND LEARNING.
>> Reporter: ONE CHALLENGE TO
RESTORING THAT SWAG, THAT
SWAGGERING SENSE OF COOL, WAS
GETTING BOYS MOTIVATED TO EVEN
SHOW UP TO SCHOOL.
>> WHAT WE FOUND WAS IF KIDS
WEREN'T EXCITED ABOUT THE
CLASSROOM, IF KIDS WEREN'T
GETTING ENCOURAGED, THEY WOULD
GET TURNED ON TO THE STREETS.
>> Reporter: SKYLINE IS ONE OF
EIGHT HIGH SCHOOLS AND THREE
MIDDLE SCHOOLS IN OAKLAND THAT
OFFER THE MANHOOD DEVELOPMENT
CLASS.
STUDENTS COME FROM VARYING
ACADEMIC, ECONOMIC, AND FAMILY
BACKGROUNDS.
>> DEFINE MANHOOD.
IN THE CONTEXT OF THIS PROGRAM,
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE A MAN?
I WANT BROTHERS TO EMBRACE ALL
ASPECTS OF MANHOOD-- NOT SO MUCH
THE STRENGTH, BUT THE
COMPASSION, THE LOVE, THE
ASPECTS OF FATHERHOOD, ASPECTS
OF HUSBANDHOOD, ASPECTS OF
BROTHERHOOD.
>> Reporter: EVERY DAY ABAKAH,
ALSO KNOWN AS BROTHER SIZWE,
LEADS THE BOYS IN EXERCISE.
IT FOCUSES THEIR MINDS SO THAT
THEY CAN BECOME BETTER STUDENTS.
>> MY MAJOR CONCERN IS, THEY
DON'T KNOW HOW TO RECEIVE
INFORMATION, THEY DON'T KNOW HOW
TO TAKE NOTES, THEY DON'T KNOW
HOW TO SIT DOWN.
A LOT OF OUR BROTHERS NEED
FATHERS, JUST PERIOD.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT OTHER WAY I
CAN PUT IT.
>> I WAS ACTUALLY ONE OF THE
SMARTEST KIDS IN MY CLASS.
>> Reporter: ABAKAH SAYS
SOMETIMES THE CLASS FEELS MORE
LIKE THERAPY.
>> WE MIGHT HAVE TO DEAL WITH A
BROTHER THAT LOST A COUSIN OR A
BROTHER THAT MIGHT BE HAVING A
BABY NEXT WEEK.
>> Reporter: STUDENTS BUILT
ALTARS TO HONOR FALLEN
CLASSMATES AND OTHER VICTIMS OF
GUN VIOLENCE-- STARK REMINDERS
OF THE TRAUMA MANY CARRY INTO
THE CLASSROOM.
>> I GREW UP ON 94th.
THAT WAS A BAD AREA, A LOT OF
KILLINGS HAPPENING.
>> Reporter: WESLEY BROWNLEE, A
15-YEAR-OLD FRESHMAN, IS A
STUDENT IN THE MANHOOD CLASS.
WHEN HE GRADUATED FROM MIDDLE
SCHOOL, HE HAD A 3.5 G.P.A.
ONCE HE STARTED HIGH SCHOOL, IT
BEGAN TO DROP.
>> I'VE SEEN MYSELF HANGING OUT
WITH KIND OF THE WRONG FRIENDS
AND ALL THAT, LIKE INTO BAD
STUFF.
>> WHATEVER SUPPORT YOU NEED,
CALL MYSELF, THE YOUTH CENTER,
TUTORING ON CAMPUS, IT'S TIME.
>> BEFORE
>> BEFORE, ALL I WAS WORRIED
ABOUT WAS JUST SPORTS, AND NOW
BROTHER SIZWE, HE MADE US DIG
DEEPER INTO SCHOOL.
LIKE, IF WE DON'T HAVE A GOOD
EDUCATION, WE MIGHT NOT GET TO
THE SCHOOL WE WANT, OR WE MIGHT
NOT HAVE THE JOB WE WANT WHEN WE
GET OLDER.
>> Reporter: A FEW MILES AWAY
FROM SKYLINE, A CHARTER SCHOOL
IS TRYING A MORE COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH.
IT'S TARGETING KIDS STARTING IN
KINDERGARTEN, AND ALL OF THE
NEARLY 75 STUDENTS ENROLLED ARE
AFRICAN AMERICAN BOYS.
>> A LOT OF BOYS THAT COME TO
THIS SCHOOL HAVE FAILED IN OTHER
SCHOOLS.
THEY HAVE BEEN KICKED OUT OR
EXPELLED, AND WE ARE NOT QUICK
TO DO THAT.
>> Reporter: DR. MARK ALEXANDER,
A RETIRED EPIDEMIOLOGIST, IS
BOARD CHAIRMAN OF THE 100 BLACK
MEN OF THE BAY AREA COMMUNITY
SCHOOL, WHICH OPENED IN 2012.
THE FOCUS IS ON AN EDUCATIONAL
MIX OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING, THE ARTS, AND MATH.
THE SCHOOL CURRENTLY SERVES
ELEMENTARY STUDENTS, BUT THE
GOAL IS TO EXPAND COVERAGE
THROUGH 12th GRADE.
>> I GREW UP FOSTER HOMES.
I GREW UP IN VERY, VERY TOUGH
SITUATIONS.
I USED TO FIGHT A LOT.
I USED TO GET SUSPENDED.
SO I SEE A LOT OF MYSELF IN
THESE BOYS AND I SEE THE GENIUS
IN A LOT OF THESE KIDS.
AND I KNOW IT ONLY TAKES A FEW
PEOPLE TO JUST GIVE A YOUNG MAN
OR A YOUNG WOMAN THE
ENCOURAGEMENT THEY NEED TO
REALLY THRIVE.
>> Reporter: KIDS AT THE SCHOOL
START EVERY MORNING WITH
BREAKFAST, THEN LINE UP TO
AFFIRMATIONS, ALSO KNOWN AS THE
"SCHOLAR HOLLA."
.
>> WE ARE!
>> THE
>> Reporter: THE SCHOOL'S ROBUST
OFFERINGS INCLUDE A HOMEWORK
CLUB, AN AERONAUTICS CLASS, AS
WELL AS MENTORING IN MEDICINE
AND SCIENCE.
THE GOAL IS TO MAKE SURE THAT
ALL THE NEEDS OF AFRICAN
AMERICAN BOYS ARE MET.
IF YOU HAD NOT RECEIVED THE
SUPPORT THAT YOU ARE PROVIDING
TO THESE AFRICAN AMERICAN BOYS,
WHERE WOULD YOU BE?
>> I WOULD BE IN SAN QUENTIN...
OR DEAD.
>> Reporter: YOU SEEM VERY SURE
OF THAT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BUT I HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
REFUSED TO LET ME FAIL.
THERE WERE PEOPLE THAT SAID,
"MARK ALEXANDER IS NOT GOING TO
FAIL.
YOU'VE GOT TO DO THIS.
.OU'VE GOT TO DO THIS
THERE ARE NO OTHER OPTIONS FOR
YOU."
AND WE HAVE TO HAVE THAT KIND OF
ATTITUDE FOR OUR KIDS.
>> Reporter: DR. ALEXANDER SAYS
THE SITUATION IS MORE DIRE THAN
PEOPLE MAY THINK.
IT'S NOT JUST AN AFRICAN
AMERICAN ISSUE, OR EVEN AN
OAKLAND ISSUE.
IT'S AN ECONOMIC ISS THAUET
IMPACTS EVERYONE IN CALIFORNIA,
A STATE WHERE MINORITIES NOW
MAKE UP THE MAJORITY.
>> WHEN WE FAIL BLACK BOYS,
LATINO BOYS-- WHOMEVER IT IS--
THERE IS A COST ATTACHED TO THAT
INCARCERATION, SOCIAL SERVICES,
ADDED POLICE PROTECTION,
INSURANCE RATE.
THE LITANY GOES ON AND ON AND
ON, AND IT IS A HUGE PRICE TAG.
WHEN YOU INVEST UP FRONT AND YOU
MAKE THOSE BOYS SUCCESSFUL, YOU
INVERT THAT.
>> Reporter: THE OFFICE OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN MALE
ACHIEVEMENT IS SEEING SOME EARLY
SIGNS OF PROGRESS.
SOME OF THE PARTICIPATING
SCHOOLS ARE REPORTING FEWER
DISCIPLINE PROBLEMS, BETTER
GRADES, AND IMPROVED ATTENDANCE.
BUT REVERSING THE OLD TRENDS
REMAINS DAUNTING.
FOR CHRIS CHATMON, SUCCESS
BEGINS BY ACKNOWLEDGING
ACHIEVEMENTS EVERY STEP OF THE
WAY.
THIS YEAR CHATMON'S OFFICE CO-
SPONSORED AN ANNUAL HONOR ROLL
EVENT, CELEBRATING AFRICAN
AMERICAN BOYS AND GIRLS FROM
EIGHTH TO 12th GRADES WHO
MAINTAINED A 3.0 GRADE POINT
AVERAGE.
ONE OF THE SKYLINE MANHOOD
DEVELOPMENT STUDENTS, 15-YEAR-
OLD JAVON MABON, PERFORMED A
SPOKEN WORD PIECE AT THE EVENT.
Reporter: CAN'T READ.
THE TEACHERS DIDN'T NOTICE ME
BUT
>> Reporter: JAVON DID NOT HAVE
THE G.P.A. NEEDED TO WIN AN
AWARD, BUT HOPES TO NEXT YEAR.
>> BUT ON THE BIGGEST DAY OF THE
BIGGEST GAME OF THE YEAR, WHEN
THE NUMBER 13 CAME CRASHING INTO
ME, AT THE SAME TIME I HEARD MY
KNEE SNAP, I HEARD MY FAMILY'S
DREAMS SHATTER.
AND I'M ASKING Y'ALL, WHAT ARE
MY OPTIONS?
I CAN'T READ.
>> Reporter: HIS PERFORMANCE WAS
BOTH A PAINFUL REMINDER OF WHAT
BLACK BOYS ARE UP AGAINST AND A
MOVING TESTAMENT TO THEIR
POTENTIAL.
>> Ifill: THE "AMERICAN
GRADUATE" PROJECT IS FUNDED BY
THE CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST PORTRAIT
OF THE JOBS MARKET DUE LATERWEEW
THAT HIRING IS CONTINUING AT A
MODERATE PACE.
BUT EVEN AS THE ECONOMY RECOVERS
SLOWLY, THERE ARE OTHER WORRIES,
INCLUDING A LACK OF PROGRESS ON
WAGES AND RELATED ISSUES.
RAY SUAREZ RECENTLY SAT DOWN TO
DISCUSS THIS WITH THE NEW
SECRETARY OF LABOR.
Reporter: THEY DON'T CAPTURE
THE TOP HEADLINES BUT THE
QUESTION OF A LIVING WAGE IS
MOVING FONTR AND CENTER AS OF
LATE.
PROTESTS BY FAST FOOD WORKERS
HAVE HELPED RAISE THE PROFILE OF
THE ISSUE, IN THE LARGEST
DEMONSTRATION YET, WORKERS FROM
60 CITIES WALKED OFF THE JOB
LAST WEEK, FOR SEEKING $15 AN
HOUR AND THE RIGHT TO UNIONIZE.
MANY RESTAURANT OWNERS SAY THOSE
ADED CDOSTS WOULD MAKE IT TOO
DIFFICULT TO MAINTAIN THEIR
BUSINESSES.
FOR HIS PART PRESIDENT OBAMA
CALLED FOR RAISING THE FEDERAL
MINIMUM WAGE TO NINE DOLLARS AN
HOUR, UP FROM THE CURRENT LEVEL
OF 7.25.
LABOR IS A KEY VOICE FOR DEALING
WITH THESE AND OTHER ISSUES.
HE WAS RECENTLY CONFIRMED BY THE
THAT AND WELCOME TO "THE NEWS
HOUR."
>> PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
>> WE SAW IN MANY PLACES FAST
FOOD RESTAURANTS WITH WORKERS
OUTSIDE, TRYING TO TELL THE
PUBLIC WHERE THEY STAND.
RECENTLY, YOU WROTE:  PEOPLE WHO
WORK FULL-TIME IN AMERICA SHOULD
NOT HAVE TO LIVE IN POVERTY,
SIMPLE AS THAT.
BUT HOW DO YOU CHANGE A
MARKETPLACE THAT MANAGES TO GET
PEOPLE TO COME IN TO WORK ON
VERY LOW WAGES?
>> I THINK YOU TAKE A PAGE OUT
OF WHAT HAPPENED 50 YEARS AGO.
WE JUST CELEBRATED THE 50th
ANNIVERSARY OF THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
THAT WAS NOT SIMPLY A MARCH FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS AS YOU KNOW BUT A
MARCH FOR ECONOMIC JUSTICE AND
ONE OF THE DEMANDS OF THE
MARCHERS WAS A FAIR AND DECENT
WAGE AND THAT IS REALLY WHAT THE
PRESIDENT IS CALLING FOR IN THIS
CONTEXT, BECAUSE NOBODY SHOULD
HAVE TO LIVE IN POVERTY WHO IS
WORKING A FULL-TIME JOB AND
THERE ARE A LOT OF MYTHS ABOUT
MINIMUM WAGE WORKERS, THEY'RE
ALL TEENAGERS.
THAT'S JUST CATEGORICALLY
INACCURATE, AND IN ORDER TO GET
PEOPLE UP TO THE LADDER OF
OPPORTUNITY THEY NEED TO MAKE A
DECEMBER IT WAGE AND FOR ALL TOO
MANY PEOPLE ACROSS AMERICA, THE
RUNGS BETWEEN THE LADDER ARE
GROWING FURTHER AND FURTHER
APART.
>> THE SHOW OF THE AMERICAN
WORKFORCE REPRESENTED BY LABOR
UNIONS HAS DROPPED PRETTY
SIGNIFICANTLY IN RECENT DECADES.
IS ORGANIZED LABOR STILL
IMPORTANT OR DOES THE SECRETARY
OF LABOR HAVE TO LOOK MORE
BROADLY TO EMPLOYERS WHEN
TALKING ABOUT THE FATE OF
AMERICAN WORKERS?
>> THE ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION
IS BOTH:  ORGANIZED LABOR IS
STILL IMPORTANT.
I. GREW UP IN BUFFALO, NEW YORK,
STRONG UNION TOWN, AND LABOR
UNIONS CONTINUE TO PLAY AN
IMPORTANT ROLE THERE AND ACROSS
AMERICA.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT YESTERDAY'S BATTLES, US
AGAINST THEM, LABOR AGAINST
MANAGEMENT.
WE NEED TO BE FOCUSED ON
TOMORROW'S CHALLENGES.
WE'RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER.
THAT'S WHAT I LEARNED IN
MARYLAND, WHEN WE WERE TRYING TO
CREATE JOBS AND YOU LOOK AT THE
PARTNERSHIPS IN NEVADA BETWEEN
THE LABOR UNIONS AND THE LARGE U
LOOK AT THE PARTNERSHIPS IN NEW
YORK CITY BETWEEN SCIU AND THE
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
THEY HAVE COME TOGETHER AROUNDEN
UNDERSTANDING THAT IF WE'RE
GOING TO BRING JOBS BACK TO
AMERICA, WHETHER IT'S
MANUFACTURING, SERVICE OR
OTHERWISE, WE HAVE TO COME
TOGETHER AROUND A SHARED VISION
AND A SHARED UNDERSTANDING AND
LEAVE YESTERDAY'S BATTLES BEHIND
AND COME TOGETHER AROUND A JOINT
NEED FOR SKILL DEVELOPMENT AND
PARTNERSHIP.
>> HAS THE ALLOW IN MANY PLACES
IN THE COUNTRY JUST MADE IT TOO
HARD TO ORGANIZE AS YOU'RE A
GROUP OF WORKERS WOULD LIKE TO
BE REPRESENTED BY A UNION?
>> WELL, IT'S UP TO EACH STATE,
IN TERMS OF WHETHER THEY WANT TO
PASS RIGHT TO WORK LAWS.
I HAPPEN TO BELIEVE, AS THE
PRESIDENT DOES, THAT RIGHT TO
WORK LAWS ARE NOT GOOD PUBLIC
POLICY.
THAT IS A STATE JUDGMENT.
AND IN THOSE STATES IT HAS BEEN
MORE DIFFICULT TO ORGANIZE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A LEVEL
PLAYING FIELD SO THAT WORKERS
CAN MAKE A FULL AND FAIR CHOICE,
AND SOME STATES HAVE THAT AND
SOME STATES DON'T.
>> BUT AGAIN, WHAT HEARTENS ME
AS MUCH AS ANYTHING IS I THINK
THERE'S AN ACUTE RECOGNITION IN
THE LABOR MOVEMENT AND AMONG
RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYERS THAT WE
CAN'T FIGHT YESTERDAY'S BATTLES
ANYMORE.
IF WE'RE GOING TO BRING JOBS
BACK, IF WE'RE GOING TO BUILD A
ROBUST ECONOMY, WE HAVE TO
RECOGNIZE THAT WE'RE ALL IN THIS
TOGETHER.
>> YOUR DEPARTMENT HAS RECENTLY
PUT IN PLACE TARGETS, NEW
TARGETS FOR PEOPLE THAT DO
BUSINESS WITH THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT FOR HIRING DISABLED
WORKERS AND VETERANS.
HOW DOES THAT WORK AND WHAT IS
THAT MEANT TO RESPOND TO?
>> WHAT IT'S MEANT TO RESPOND SO
IS THAT THE PROMISE OF THE
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT,
THAT THAT LAW HAS BEEN A
GAME-CHANGER.
BUT IN THE EMPLOYMENT CONTEXT,
THERE'S STILL -- THEY'RE STILL
STUBBORNLY HIGH UNEMPLOYMENT
RATES AMONG PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU MEET,
RAY, THAT COME UP AND SAY I WANT
TO BE A TAXPAYER?
THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES TELL ME.
AND WHAT THIS REGULATION SETS IN
PLACE IS THAT, FOR VETERANS WITH
DISABILITIES, FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES, EMPLOYERS NEED TO
SET TARGETS, THEIR GOALS, AND
THEY NEED TO HAVE A PLAN TO MAKE
SURE THAT WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT
A PERSON WITH A DISABILITY,
YOU'RE FOCUSED ON THEIR ABILITY
NOT THEIR DISABILITY.
AND I APPLAUD EMPLOYERS LIKE
WALGREENS AND OTHERS THAT HAVE
ALREADY EXCEEDED THESE GOALS AND
ARE MODELS FOR THE NATION AND
I'M CONFIDENT THIS WILL OPEN UP
WINDOWS OF OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE.
>> A GROUP OF HR MANAGERS AND
LARGE EMPLOYERS HAVE GOTTEN
TOGETHER TO COMPLAIN THIS PUTS
THEM IN THE POSITION OF ASKING
THEIR PROSPECTIVE WORKERS ABOUT
POSSIBLE DISABILITIES IN A WAY
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE BEFORE, IN
EFFECT, THEY'RE SAYING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS FORCING US
TO INVADE THEIR PRIVACY.
HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THAT?
>> IT'S INCORRECT.
THERE'S NO REQUIREMENT ON THE
PERSPECTIVE EMPLOYEE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS, ALL OF THE
QUESTIONS ARE VOLUNTARY.
AND AGAIN I WOULD GO BACK TO ALL
OF THESE EMPLOYERS, LARGE AND
SMALL, AS I MENTIONED,
WALGREENS, ERNST & YOUNG, OTHERS
THAT ISSUED STATEMENTS STRONGLY
SUPPORTING THIS INITIATIVE.
THIS ISN'T A PARTISAN INITIATE.
>> THERE'S SO MUCH TO TALK TO
YOU ABOUT BUT I HAVE TO CLOSE
WITH THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE HAS BEEN
COMING DOWN STEADILY, NOT AS
FAST AS PEOPLE WOULD LIKE BUT IT
HAS COME DOWN.
PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN UNEMPLOYED
FOR A LONG TIME ARE HAVING A
TERRIBLE, TERRIBLE TIME GETTING
JOBS.
WHAT CAN WE DO FOR THEM?
>> WELL, WE CAN DO A LOT.
AND YOU'RE CORRECT THAT, WHILE
THE ECONOMY IS SLOWLY AND
STEADILY GROWING, WE HAVE TO GO
AT A FASTER PACE AND, IN
PARTICULAR, WE NEED TO DRESS THE
TERMS OF THE LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYED AND THE PRESIDENT HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT THIS ISSUE
SPECIFICALLY AND A NUMBER OF
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO.
NUMBER ONE, WE HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT WITH EMPLOYERS AND AS
RECENTLY AS A FEW DAYS AGO I
ENGAGED THERE THIS PRECISE
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT WE CAN
DO TO IDENTIFY EMPLOYERS WOULD
BEST PRACTICES FOR HIRING THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED, AND MAKING
SURE THERE AREN'T INADVERTENT
BARRIERS IN PLACE THAT SCREEN
OUT THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED.
SECONDLY AND EQUALRY, IF NOT
MORE IMPORTANTLY, INVESTING IN
SKILLS, BECAUSE THE THING I HEAR
THE MOST IN MY CONVERSATIONS
WITH C.E.O.'S ACROSS THE COUNTRY
IS, I AM -- FOR EVERY JOB I
HAVE, I HAVE 50 OR 60 PERCENT OF
THE APPLICANTS DON'T HAVE THE
SKILLS KNOWS DO THE JOBS --
DON'T HAVE THE SKILLS NECESSARY
TO DO THE JOBS.
THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR IS A
DEPARTMENT OF OPPORTUNITY AND
THE WAY WE ENHANCE OPPORTUNITY
IS BY MAKING SURE PEOPLE HAVE
THE SKILLS TO SUCCEED.
THOMAS PETTIS IS THE
SECRETARY OF LABOR.
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> IT'S A PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, SOME
WORDS OF TRIUMPH FROM ENDURANCE
SWIMMER DIANA NYAD.
THE 64-YEAR-OLD BECAME THE FIRST
PERSON TO SWIM FROM CUBA TO
FLORIDA WITHOUT A SHARK CAGE.
SHE COVERED 110 MILES IN 53
HOURS.
AT A PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY IN
FLORIDA KEYS, NYAD SAID SHE'D
CHASED HER DREAM OF MAKING THE
EPIC SWIM FOR DECADES.
HER FIFTH TRY WAS FINALLY
SUCCESSFUL.
>> THERE ARE SO MANY FACTORS OUT
THERE AGAINST YOU, IF YOU ARE
GOING TO LAY THE ODDS IN VEGAS,
IT WOULDN'T BE PRETTY.
YOU WOULDN'T MAKE MONEY UNLESS
YOU BET AGAINST IT.
BUT WE DID IT PLAWDZ.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> AS A SWIMMER YOU'RE NEVER
HAPPY IN THE END.
ANY TIME YOU HAVE TO BREATHE AND
GO UP AND DOWN AND FIGHT IT,
YOU'RE NOT HAPPY AND YOU'RE NOT
FEELING WELL.
AND WHEN I HAD TO PUT ON THE
JELLYFISH MASK AT NIGHT I FELT
100% PREPARED FOR THE JELLYFISH,
BUT, EVERY BREATH WHEN YOU'RE IN
WAVES LIKE THAT COMING THROUGH
THAT MASK, AND I STARTED
SWALLOWING, THE 13 HOURS OF
SATURDAY NIGHT, TREMENDOUS
VOLUMES OF SEA WATER, AND THEN I
STARTED VOMITING CONSTANTLY.
AND AS SOON AS THAT HAPPENS AND
YOU CAN'T REPLACE THAT FOOD, THE
PROTEIN, THE ELECTROLYTES,
YOU'RE IN HAD A BAD PLACE,
YOU'RE COLD.
AND THAT NIGHT WAS HELL ON
EARTH.
>> I THINK MY FAVORITE PRESS
CORP QUESTION FOR SEVERAL PEOPLE
THAT ASKED ME, WELL, DO YOU HAVE
ANY BOATS THAT GO ALONG WITH
U?YO
[LAUGHTER]
YOU KNOW OR DO YOU JUST DO IT BY
YOURSELF?
I SAID, NO, NO, NO, I PUT A
COUPLE OF BANANA IN ANY SUIT AND
I TAKE A PORTABLE SALTWATER
DISSTILLER ON MY DESK AND I
CARRY A BUOY KNIFE AND I SKIN
THEM AND EAT THEM ALIVE.
YES, I HAVE BOATS THAT GO ALONG
WITH ME.
>> THE THING ABOUT AGING IS,
IT'S TRUE THAT THE CLOCK SEEMS
TO BE TICKING FASTER AS YOU GET
OLDER.
IT ISN'T BUT IT SEEMS TO BE.
TIME SEEMS TO BE RUNNING OUT.
AND I WANTED TO SWIM THIS
ENDEAVOR NOT TO JUST BE THE
ATHLETIC RECORD; I WANTED IT TO
BE A LESSON FOR MY LIFE THAT
SAYS:  BE SO AWAKE AND ALERT AND
ALIVE EVERY MINUTE OF EVERY
WAKING DAY BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT I
HAD TO DO TO GET THIS TON.
>> THAT WAS DIANNE NYAD
REFLECTING ON HER HISTORY-MAKING
SWIM FROM CUBA TO KEY WEST.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WON SUPPORT FROM
TOP HOUSE LEADERS AND OTHERS AS
HE COURTED CONGRESS TO BACK
MILITARY ACTION AGAINST SYRIA.
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
ANNOUNCED IT WILL SPEND $470
MILLION TO TRY TO STOP LEAKS OF
RADIOACTIVE WATER FROM A
CRIPPLED NUCLEAR PLANT.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, GETTING YOUR
VOICE HEARD IN THE DEBATE OVER
SYRIA.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS THE DETAILS.
>> WITH MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
BEFORE THEY VOTE, FROM TIPS ON
TWEETING TO TELEPHONING, AND IN
OUR ASK THE HEADHUNTER COLUMNIST
TRANSLATES THE REJECTED LETTER
FROM HR.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE ON NEWS
HOUR.PBS.ORG.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER.
WE HAVE GOOD NEWS  YOUIF'RE USED
TO WATCHING THE PBS NEWSHOUR
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
STARTING THIS WEEKEND, YOU CAN
FIND US SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS AS
WELL.
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND PREMIERES
THIS SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
JOIN HARI SREENIVASAN FOR A 30-
MINUTE LOOK AT THE TOP NEWS
STORIES, WITH THE SAME IN-DEPTH,
INDEPENDENT COVERAGE YOU'VE COME
TO EXPECT FROM THE NEWSHOUR.
THAT'S PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
PREMIERING RIGHT HERE THIS
SATURDAY.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.